---
layout: post
title: 'Uncertainty-aware Knowledge Tracing'
date: 2025-03-16T16:00:00.000+00:00
tags: model
categories: []
author: ''
post_image: "/assets/images/posts/ukt.jpg"
post_format: ''
trending: true

---
We added UKT into our pyKT package.

The link is [here](https://pykt-toolkit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models.html#ukt) and the API is [here](https://pykt-toolkit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pykt.models.html#module-pykt.models.ukt).

Original paper can be found at Cheng W, Du H, Li C, et al. "Uncertainty-aware Knowledge Tracing." [Proceedings of the 39th Annual AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. 2025.
](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05415)


Title: Uncertainty-aware Knowledge Tracing

Abstract: Knowledge Tracing (KT) is crucial in education assessment,
which focuses on depicting students’ learning states and assessing students’ mastery of subjects. With the rise of modern online learning platforms, particularly massive open online courses (MOOCs), an abundance of interaction data has greatly advanced the development of the KT technology. Previous research commonly adopts deterministic representation to capture students’ knowledge states, which neglects the uncertainty during student interactions and thus fails to model
the true knowledge state in learning process. In light of this, we propose an Uncertainty-Aware Knowledge Tracing model
(UKT) which employs stochastic distribution embeddings to represent the uncertainty in student interactions, with a
Wasserstein self-attention mechanism designed to capture the transition of state distribution in student learning behaviors.
Additionally, we introduce the aleatory uncertainty-aware contrastive learning loss, which strengthens the model’s robustness towards different types of uncertainties. Extensive experiments on six real-world datasets demonstrate that UKT
not only significantly surpasses existing deep learning-based models in KT prediction, but also shows unique advantages
in handling the uncertainty of student interactions.
